In the last section we spoke about how we're going to source our data for lists of albums we're going
to make an Ajax request to that Roku app and point to grab a list of objects where each object represents
one album that list of data will be pushed into this new component that we're going to call album list.
So album list is going to be responsible for fetching that album data.
And then once it fetches that data it will display one album detail a component per album that got fetched.
The album list will be a child of the component and the app component.
Also right now is showing the head or component as well.
So I hope this is starting to give you a little bit better sense of how we start to nest and put views
together or excuse me components to form a larger more complex application.
So let's get started on our album list component.
First thing we're going to do is make this component we're going to put some dummy text in there and
then we're going to make sure that it renders inside the app after we put together some initial scaffold
for the album list component.
We're going to work on fetching our album data from that remote endpoint.
So let's get to it inside of my project directory.
I'm going to make a new file to my album list component.
Remember one file.
One component.
So my components directory.
I'll make a new file called album list.
Yes.
Take note here them using capitals for ALBUM AND list.
I need a little bit of a mistake in the past when I used a lowercase letter here.
So moving forward we're going to have capital letters for all of our component names if you want to
go back and rename the header the capital H.
Certainly go for it.
I advocate that capitalization scheme but I'm not going to take the time right now to go back and fix
it up.
So here is our album list.
So inside of here we'll put in some boiler plate and then to show it inside of our app component and
call it good.
So at the very top we'll do the two imports for what we need with every component We place.
First we will import react from react.
Then we will import and I'm going to just assume right now that I'm going to want a new tag in the text
tag from reac native.
Next we will create our actual component so Konst album list.
And this is going to return some amount of GSX.
So for right now I'm just going to return a new tag and inside of this new tag I'm going to place some
text that just says album list.
Just something to get us started.
Finally at the bottom of the file I'll export this component that we just created.
So export default album list.
This right here referred to has our component component boilerplate.
It's something that we're going to be typing out again and again and again.
I guarantee you you are going to get this boilerplate down pat by the time you get through the end of
this course because we're going to make.
Probably.
I don't know a dozen or two different components or did you write this out a lot.
All right.
So here's our album list component.
We now want to show it inside of the app component so I'll save this file and we're going to flip back
over to the file that has our app component.
Which for me is index Iowa SJS.
If you are on Android or developing for Android you will open up index Android.
J.S. we will then import that component at the top so we will import album list from and then remember
because this is a component that we wrote it's something that we authored.
We are going to give the relative path to that file.
So starting in the current directory which I represent with a dot slash go into the source directory
go into components and then get album list so into source components album list.
Because this is a javascript file ending in Dot.
Yes I do not have to put on the file extension here so I do not have to put on the dot.
Yes I can but I don't have to.
OK so here's our album list.
We now want to show it within the app component.
Here's a little trick about GSX or maybe trick isn't the correct word we may need to say.
Our requirement for any component that we create we must return a single top level GSX tag.
So I can't just add in album list al bumm list like so this is not valid GSX because I'm trying to return
two siblings at one time.
This would be completely equivalent to returning something like no return 1 and then return to it just
it doesn't work out.
If you're just going to try to return one and you're never going to reach return statement 2.
That's more or less what is happening here at the GSX.
So whenever I have multiple tags I want to turn at the same time.
I will instead wrap them with a single view tag.
That means I will satisfy my requirement of returning a single top level tag.
So let's do that up at the top and my import statement for me I need if I'm going to add in a value
tag.
And now I'm going to wrap my header and my album list with a single view tag.
So it plays a view
and then I'll close the view off like so cool.
So I'm returning one top level tag that contains two components inside of it.
Like I said previously view tags are without a doubt the Swiss Army knife of tags.
We use them for all different types of utility and over time you'll definitely get more used to or at
least more familiar with the different uses of the new tag.
All right.
Let's test this out in our simulator just to make sure that we didn't make a typo or anything.
I'll pop over my simulator.
All refresh and there is my album list text right here.
OK.
So off to a great start.
Let's continue on the next section and work on making an Ajax request from our album list component
to fetch our list of items.